[Music]
foreign
i'm afraid i won't be able to unequip my
armor
okay plug in your keyboard bro hey guys
bit of a long post
um i'm on mobile
okay i recently have gone through a
completely unanticipated breakup with
the first girl i think i've ever truly
loved
in her entirety and as unselfishly as i
think i can
okay so you've unselfishly left her all
right got it
i don't know how many details are
necessary but essentially she blindsided
me two years into a relationship
with which i thought the future was
bright and clear
um i was looking at rings the week
before and essentially told me she
needed
time to be single and focus on god okay
my concern isn't with her reasons i'll
admit i'm very frustrated and don't
entirely understand what she needs
but i respect her decision and believe
that she needs
us to be a part although her behavior
since the breakup has been somewhat
confusing
my concern is that i'm not sure that
i'll ever be able to trust someone the
way i trusted her again
i grew up in a household with a
narcissistic mother who constantly told
my twin and i how much she hated us and
dreaded us coming
coming coming home to us every day every
day until we
were 18 and went out went our separate
ways
there's something in dr k's guides about
this scenario too okay we're not going
to play that video but
we'll just talk about this this
obviously led to a severe relationship
led to severe relationship with issues
with which i've been
a serial dater always looking for
affection that i didn't grow up with
and i feel like a certain void is filled
during relationships
contested with severe security issues
which has at worst led me to being over
possessive and at best
led me to keep my relationships at arm's
length and not to let them get too close
um i will give myself a credit and say
that i've come a long way in this regard
okay we'll get to that
it wasn't until this past relationship
that i feel felt completely at ease in
the relationship and 100
trusted the other person she was also
honest with me and i
and i with her and i felt like we grew
so well together and built an amazing
foundation for a future together
never in my mind did i think that
breaking up would have been an option
for us
with that trust and perspective being
absolutely shattered i feel i've
reverted back to a completely apathetic
person
nothing has purpose to me anymore in the
idea of speaking or seeing anyone
that isn't her just sounds gut-wrenching
to borrow a term from dr dr k used in
this conversation with destiny
i feel like i was wearing emotional
armor with her
i was wearing emotional armor when her
and i met and she helped me take it off
and now i feel as as if it's stuck and
i'm not sure how to take it off on my
own thank you
great great post um
okay so let's talk about this couple of
different dimensions
first of all huge huge props not only
for posting but like this person has
obviously come a long way right like and
i
i love it i love so much about this post
i mean i know that this person is
struggling a lot right now but
i can't help but appreciate a lot of the
growth
that this person has gone through so
like first of all they recognize
so much about themselves and if there's
one thing that makes me
like optimistic about your future it's
awareness awareness precedes control
in all things it's a fundamental yogic
principle
which if you don't understand you just
have to think about the last time you
had dental work numb
done and you got numbed up right like
when you're numbed up you can't feel
anything
like that you can't control anything so
you have to be aware of something before
you can change it
okay so this person grew up with
narcissistic parents
and it took a lot of work for them to be
able they started to enter into
unhealthy relationship patterns
where either they were like overly
callous
or like other things right so what did
they say
so because they grew up in a
narcissistic household
you know they became a serial dater
first always looking for affection that
i didn't grow up with
and they were filling a void from their
like upbringing through like romantic
relationships which was unhealthy
and then they kind of potentially grew
out of that or at the same time
navigated being like
overly possessive or overly callous
so this is like very very um
it's a very insightful like
understanding of their situation so when
we grow up with people
and we sort of have a void of emotion
like emotional love from parents or
other figures
we try to like solve that in our
romantic relationships and then these
relationships tend to do poorly because
we're trying to fix something from the
past with a different person
in our current relationship and that
just doesn't work out
so you become a serial dater you become
overly possessive or overly callous
really actually common pattern then they
meet someone
they fall in love they're able to be
vulnerable they're able to like connect
with them
they're able to take down their
emotional armor right and that makes a
lot of sense because
over time when you grow up in a
narcissistic household you build up
defenses to keep yourself from getting
hurt
and now this person is like i let down
my defenses and this person broke up
with me
and now i feel like i can never take off
my armor again
so let me say this the first thing is
that when we go through a stressful and
traumatic experience there's a tendency
to regress
okay so this is like the equivalent of
like going back to what you know
it's like so every now and then so i'm
gonna give you guys dota analogy okay so
like i usually play position five so i
usually play support
and every now and then i'll get it into
my mind it's like i'm gonna play mid
or i'm gonna play carrie and i'm gonna
show these noobs like because i just got
destroyed by some hero like some you
know
carry in the last game it's like i'm
gonna step outside of my comfort zone
and i'm gonna and then i get punished
for it right
i try something i step out of my comfort
zone i get punished what happens in my
mind it's like back to position five
back to what we know back to safe ground
like let's go back to like what works
for us like we've tried this for years
it's worked for us emotional armor is
good
right like let's go back to our
emotional armor that's what we need
so the first thing is that's actually
completely okay
don't worry about it like i know it
sounds weird i know it sounds like oh my
god i was able to trust this person i
don't think i'll ever
ever be able to trust again you'll be
able to trust again you just won't be
able to trust anytime soon and it's
going to take some time
okay but this is how you learn how to
take armor off and put armor on
so like you've been wearing it your
whole life and you like it took you a
couple years but you figured out how to
take it off
and then you got hurt so then you put it
back on you strapped it back on very
quickly
and the second time it'll be easier and
the third time it'll be easier
and the fourth time it'll be easier now
each time you take it off
will you is there a possibility you'll
get hurt again absolutely will it hurt
will it suck absolutely
but the skill that we want to teach you
is how to take the armor off and
on which you have to practice right so
if you're worried that you won't be able
to love anyone ever again and won't be
able to trust anyone ever again like
i think that's a valid worry but i don't
think that's actually what's going to
happen because
what your story tells me is that you're
someone who probably
has really hard problems like if you
think about growing up with a
narcissistic mother and being a serial
dater and
learning how to take it off the first
time like you've done this before
right you've completed it once and
you'll be able to do it again
but don't rush and don't force yourself
right so like
it hurts you're feeling that rejection
you're gonna protect yourself
protect yourself don't try to take the
armor off for six months one year
whatever
right it's it's actually completely okay
you don't i mean i know that you're
worried about like
being you know permanently this way but
i don't think that's gonna happen i
think it's just
you're hurting right now and so like
what does the mind do
when we're hurt it protects itself so as
the hurt decreases and as you get over
the hurt you'll be able to take off the
armor again it'll take some work but
you'll get there
so it's okay all right so like for those
of you who feel like you know i
i took my um armor off and and now i got
hurt and now i can't
like i'm never gonna be able to take it
off again it's okay for you to oh wow we
got a thousand dollar donation thank you
very much
be cool man um and so
uh yes sorry damn it people donate a lot
i just lose my train of thought
okay so you're not gonna you're not
gonna stay like stuck forever without
with armor on okay so just a couple of
things okay
so the first is that like you know i i
know that
this person is feeling like rejected and
hurt but i don't know that this is a
betrayal
per se right so i'd like i'd encourage
this person to think a little bit about
you know you can be you know really into
someone and you guys can be like
in a good healthy relationship
but i think it's important to remember
that um
you know people grow over time it sounds
like you were dating this person for two
years
people grow they can change they can
sort of evolve
as people and like it's okay for you to
be dating someone and like you all be in
the perfect relationship for that year
but as you each grow as individuals like
y'all could essentially grow apart and
like
you can sort of part ways right so i'm
hearing
you know this some of this stuff sounds
a little bit strange to me but
um you know like i i think it's actually
like
pretty respectful on on i'm assuming
it's a woman
um yeah first girl so like i you know i
think if if she's in a headspace where
she doesn't think that like
like she's ready for this commitment of
relationship and she wants to focus on
other issues i actually think it's sort
of like healthy for her to
let you know that right here you are
looking at rings and she's like yeah i'm
not sure if this is the relationship for
me
or this is not the time to be in a
relationship for me
and so i think it's actually i'd hope
that you can see you know over time that
like
this could be actually like a good sort
of
good move on her part in terms of like
not actually betraying your trust but
if she's not feeling the same way you do
then then like you know i think it's
actually really healthy for her to let
you know that
so that you don't get hurt more down the
road
um the other thing that i want to talk a
second about is like i'd be careful
about boundaries here too
okay i'll admit i'm very frustrated and
don't entirely understand what she needs
but i respect her decision and beliefs
that she needs us to be a part
although her behavior since the breakup
has been somewhat confusing
this you got to be careful about okay
so when it comes to a healthy
relationship
when when this person says i'll admit
that i'm frustrated with not
understanding what she needs
so like this is where like it is the
responsibility
of each person in the relationship to
communicate
what their needs are to the other person
so this is where you know i don't wanna
like bash this person but i'm gonna say
a couple of things which
i'm gonna infer for a moment they may be
unfair
you all need to really stop donating
because it's distracting there was a 69
donation from anonymous a 27 and a 250
donation because i want to say something
it's important wait chat thank you for
the donation wait
okay so boundaries and relationships are
important if you feel frustrated because
this person is not communicating their
needs to you you can be in love with
them they can be amazing
and at the same time like you got to be
a little bit careful right because
if someone has like if she's going
through stuff and is not able to
communicate that with you
in a healthy way like you got to be
really careful because what does that
mean down the road
right what if she's like going through
another internal crisis and then like
you're kind of confused because you're
into this and her head is somewhere else
and like
that can be really dangerous and then
the last thing that you got to be
careful about is you said
i'm confused about her behavior since
we've broken up
which implies that you guys are still
like communicating or interacting in
some way
and this is where i really cautioned you
to be very careful
because if you guys aren't dating and
she's essentially broken up with you i'd
be careful about what kind of
relationship you maintain with her
because even though there may be a part
of you that wants to be with her if
she's someone that's not
communicating with you in a healthy way
and like wants to work through things
and
it's like breaking up with you while she
works through stuff
instead of having you be a part of that
process and growth which you don't
necessarily have
to right depending on what she's trying
to do but generally speaking when i see
healthy relationships
they usually like have communication
prior to the by the way i'm dumping you
because i need to focus on god
like that's fine like in the sense it's
healthy because she's sort of letting
you know what she needs
and at the other hand it's like kind of
unhealthy for her to kind of blindside
you
right like that right so like presumably
she didn't make that decision over 24
hours
and if you guys are like in a
relationship where you're thinking about
stuff that you don't think is going well
in the relationship
i strongly encourage you to talk to your
partner about it
right and then like give them the
opportunity to help you through it think
through it
you know i know that a lot of people
kind of talk about the relationship i
have with my wife we've
struggled a lot well like we're we're
like you know we've talked about
breaking up before we've talked about
getting divorced before and things like
that like you know part of that is like
you know it's about having the
conversation and being like hey this is
how i feel
where do you think this is going is this
something that we can work through
and at the end of the day what i want
you all to understand is like a
relationship
is a co-op game right so if you guys
want to succeed you all got a co-op and
that
involves like facing difficult problems
so if you're thinking about breaking up
with someone don't
you know i i mean you're entitled to do
whatever you want to like you can just
drop it on them
but i think it's like healthy from like
a relationship skills building way
to voice your concerns with the other
person
and then like give them a chance to
respond because maybe you're like
mistaken about something maybe they've
been feeling the same thing
maybe like give them an opportunity to
kind of work on it
you know so like give them an
opportunity to like play co-op with you
especially if you've been in a
relationship for two years
okay we're gonna review comments let's
see let's see what people on the
subreddit think let's go chat
hey man first of all i'm sorry breakups
suck i'm still healing from mine and
that was months ago i can only suggest
what worked for me because i don't know
your situation go no contact on your ex
this just means that you do not initiate
contact with her in any way shape or
form
you won't ignore her if she talks to you
but you need this time to grieve and go
through your feelings
and seeing talking to her when she's not
receptive won't help you oh this is
great dude
i love this comment because sometimes
people mean sometimes people think that
go
no contact like they interpret that as
um you know don't even respond to her
but like
i think not initiating contact is like
really a far healthier way to do it
okay journal and meditate i'm not much
of a journaling
person myself before the breakup but i
can tell you that this is the last
change i needed i started just under a
month ago and i already feel a huge
difference
this is part uh this is the part when
you work through unequipping your armor
beautiful
dude love the subreddit fb fbc
music i don't know if that's music or
magic
thanks randy and print and anonymous for
the donations by the way
y'all can donate as much as you all want
now okay
oh and by the way that confusing
behavior towards the breakup might just
be that she is being hot and cold
because she is also confused
no contact helps with that too it might
sound hard but at this point
anything that is not hey babe i want us
to work this out is just breadcrumbs
yeah so what when when this person says
she is confused i think that's a good
way to put it and
we're going to talk about you know i
want to make a guide to relationships at
some point
and i want you all to understand that
like a lot like most human beings are
ambivalent about most things
so like very few human beings are 100
towards a particular direction
most of the time they like their reasons
that she wants to be with you
and their reasons why she doesn't want
to be with you and that's why she's been
in a relationship for two years
so it's not that she's like a hundred
percent towards breaking up it's like
she's probably 51
plus towards breaking up which means
that she may be exhibiting a lot of
behavior that feels quote unquote hot
and cold
because obviously she's getting
something out of the relationship she
cares about you to some degree
and i think this is good advice too
that's sort of not cultivating a
particular kind of thought where you're
thinking about her all the time
is actually really important and that's
why no contact actually helps okay so
thanks i appreciate that i've been no
contact since we broke up
she initiated all the contact we've had
since then as i've tried to respect her
space so she can get up
can get what she needs out of this cool
one of the hardest things is it seems
like i'm doing everything right
post-breakup but i'm not getting better
i typically recover from relationships
in a few weeks but this one just feels
different yeah man
first of all i feel for you growing up
with narc parents sucks i don't have any
advice for your specific situation but i
will say that many of us who grew up
with narc parents have similar core
wounding
and issues you describe are very common
in children raised in such households
absolutely true specifically the thing
about emotional armor boundary issues
how you commune how to communicate your
needs etc
i found this channel very helpful for
advice for people who grew up with
um narcissistic parents interesting i'm
not sure if you've
seen it but there's a video talking with
william about healing from ctpsd
cptsd from narc parents that's probably
pretty helpful that's a good one
i like that one
cool okay next
seriously everyone thank you so much for
the donations everybody